docs/en/plugins/low_keepalive_requests.md, before:

---
title: "Low Keepalive Requests"
description: "Optimize NGINX for HTTP/2. Why the default keepalive_requests value was raised to 1000 and why low values hurt performance."
---

# [low_keepalive_requests] Low `keepalive_requests` value

The `keepalive_requests` directive sets the maximum number of requests that can be served through one keep-alive connection. After the maximum number of requests are made, the connection is closed.

## Why this matters

Prior to nginx 1.19.10, the default value was 100. This was raised to 1000 because low values can cause problems:

- **HTTP/2 multiplexing**: Modern browsers open fewer connections but send many requests over each one. A low `keepalive_requests` value forces frequent connection resets.
- **Client disconnections**: Some clients may experience failed requests when connections are closed prematurely.
- **Performance overhead**: Establishing new connections has overhead (TCP handshake, TLS negotiation). Keeping connections alive longer improves performance.

## Bad example

```nginx
keepalive_requests 100;
```

This forces connection closure after only 100 requests, which can cause issues with HTTP/2 clients.

## Good example

```nginx
keepalive_requests 1000;
```

Or simply omit the directive to use nginx's default (1000 since nginx 1.19.10).

## References

- [nginx documentation: keepalive_requests](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#keepalive_requests)
- [nginx ticket #2155: Increase default keepalive_requests](https://trac.nginx.org/nginx/ticket/2155)
- [Debugging failures of HTTP/2 in Burp, mitmproxy, and browsers](https://joshua.hu/http2-burp-proxy-mitmproxy-nginx-failing-load-resources-chromium#nginx-keepalive_requests)

Commit message:

Rewrite all documentation in a standard way.

docs/en/plugins/low_keepalive_requests.md, after:

---
title: "Low Keepalive Requests"
description: "Detects keepalive_requests values that are likely too low for modern traffic patterns (especially HTTP/2). Low values force frequent connection churn and can cause client-side failures under load."
---

# [low_keepalive_requests] Low keepalive_requests value

## What this check looks for

This plugin warns when `keepalive_requests` is set to an unusually low number.

## Why this is a problem

`keepalive_requests` controls how many requests a client can send over a single keep-alive connection before NGINX closes it.

Low values create avoidable connection churn:

- With HTTP/2, browsers tend to use fewer connections and multiplex many requests. Closing a connection early forces unnecessary reconnects.
- Some clients will see failed or retried requests when the server closes a busy connection at the wrong time.
- Extra TLS handshakes and TCP setup cost CPU and latency.

In newer NGINX versions, the default is 1000. Older versions historically used 100.

## Bad configuration

```nginx
keepalive_requests 100;
```

This is often too low for modern browsers and HTTP/2 workloads.

## Better configuration

```nginx
keepalive_requests 1000;
```

If your NGINX already defaults to 1000, you can also omit the directive and keep the defaults.

## Additional notes

The "right" number depends on your traffic and timeouts, but the takeaway is simple: avoid values that force constant reconnecting. If you are tuning performance, look at `keepalive_timeout` and (for upstream keepalive) the `keepalive` directive in `upstream` blocks as well. For more information about when this error can show up, read [this post](https://joshua.hu/http2-burp-proxy-mitmproxy-nginx-failing-load-resources-chromium).
